---
layout: page
title: Configure Cookie Authentication Module Identity System
description: Learn how to configure a Cookie Authentication Module Identity System.
product: ag
category: learn
sub-nav-class: Security Configuration
weight:	9
type: page
nav-title: Configure Cookie Authentication Module Identity System
---

## Configure Cookie Authentication Module Identity System

Learn how to configure a Cookie Authentication Module Identity System.

<a href="../identity_systems.html" class="button secondary">Identity Systems (Home)</a>

<h5 class="stamp">Supported Platforms: 7.0 and greater.</h5>

### Table of Contents
<div id="toc-marker"></div>
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Configure Cookie Authentication Module Identity System](#configure-cookie-authentication-module-identity-system)

## Introduction

The Cookie Authentication Module identity system provides authentication based on a Secure Session Cookie.  

* A Secure Session Cookie is an HTTP cookie generated by Network Director or Policy Manager as part of HTTP Basic Authentication.
* The Session Cookie can be used as an alternative authentication token that is more secure than password-based authentication.

## Configure Cookie Authentication Module Identity System

1. Go to **Configure > Security > Identity Systems**.  
The *Identity Systems Summary* screen is displays.
2. Click **Add Identity System**.  
The *Add Identity System Wizard* is launched, displaying the *Identity System Domain Details* screen.
3. Under *Select Identity System*, use the *Identity System Type* **drop-down list box** to select **Cookie Authentication Module**. 
4. Enter the Domain Details (Name & Description) associated with the Cookie Authentication Module Identity System Type selected in step 3.  
5. Click **Next**.  
You are taken to the *Cookie Authentication Module* screen.
6. Enter **Cookie Name** (soasession is the default value).
7. In the **Cookie Max Age in Seconds** field, specify how many seconds after the browser receives the cookie that the cookie will expire.
8. Specify the **Domain**  and server **path** where cookies should be sent.  
**Note**: *If no domain and path are specified, they default to the domain and path of the object that was requested.*
9. Enter "True" or "False" in the **Cookie Only For Secure Channel** to indicate whether the browser will send the cookie only over an encrypted channel (e.g., Transport Layer Security (HTTPS protocol)). False is the default value.
10. Click **Finish**.  
The system configures your identity system based on your provided configuration parameters and returns to the *Identity System Summary* screen.

<a href="#top">back to top</a> 