---
layout: page
title: Identifier Schemes
description: Define your own custom identifier schemes that align with your specific business requirements.
product: ag
category: learn
sub-nav-class: Registry
weight: 118
type: page
nav-title: Identifier Schemes
---

## Identifier Schemes
Define your own custom identifier schemes that align with your specific business requirements.

View the *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen by going to **Configure > Registry** and then clicking on the **Identifier Schemes** tab.

<a href="../registry/registry_toc.html" class="button secondary">Registry (Home)</a> <a href="../registry/category_schemes.html" class="button secondary">Category Schemes</a> <a href="../registry/categories.html" class="button secondary">Categories</a> <a href="../registry/schema.html" class="button secondary">Schema</a> <a href="../registry/interfaces.html" class="button secondary">Interfaces</a> <a href="../registry/tmodels.html" class="button secondary">tModels</a> <a href="../registry/subscriptions.html" class="button secondary">Subscriptions</a> <br><br> <a href="../registry/replications.html" class="button secondary">Replications</a> <a href="../registry/registry_reference.html" class="button secondary">Registry Reference</a>
<h5 class="stamp">Supported Platforms: 7.0 and greater.</h5>
### Table of Contents
<div id="toc-marker"></div>
* [Add Identifier Scheme](#add-identifier-scheme)
* [Modify Identifier Scheme](#modify-identifier-scheme)
* [Delete Identifier Scheme](#delete-identifier-scheme)

## Add Identifier Scheme

Add an identifier scheme by defining its "Name" and "Description." The naming convention must conform to one of the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.

1. Go to **Configure > Registry**.
2. Click on the **Identifier Schemes**.  
The *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen displays.
3. Click **Add Identifier Scheme** tab.  
The *Add Identifier Scheme* screen displays.
4. (Optional) Enter a **Key** that is system-generated by the Registry Manager Subsystem.
5. Enter the **Name** of the new identifier scheme. The naming convention used must conform to any Uniform Resource Identifier Scheme.
6. Enter a **Description** of the new identifier scheme (it will be displayed for this new identifier definition on the *Identifier Summary* screen).
7. Click **Apply**.  
The system saves the new definition and returns to the *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen.
8. (Optional) To exit with saving, click **Cancel**. 

<a href="#top">back to top</a> 

## Modify Identifier Scheme

**Note:** *Changing the underlying properties of an identifier scheme after it has been used to associate an identifier with an entity will "automatically" update the associations.*

1. Go to **Configure > Registry**.
2. Click on the **Identifier Schemes** tab.  
The *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen displays.
3. Click **Modify Identifier Scheme**.  
The *Modify Identifier Scheme* screen displays.  
**Note**: *The* ***Key Name*** *displayed is generated by policy manager.  This line item will be blank if the* ***Key*** *option was not configured when the identifier scheme was originally added.*
4. Update the **Name** of the identifier scheme. The naming convention used must conform to any Uniform Resource Identifier Scheme.
5. Update the **Description** of the identifier scheme (it will be displayed for this new identifier definition on the *Identifier Summary* screen).
6. Click **Apply**.  
The system saves the new definition and returns to the *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen.
7. (Optional) To exit without saving, click **Cancel**. 


<a href="#top">back to top</a> 

## Delete Identifier Scheme

1. Go to **Configure > Registry**.
2. Click on the **Identifier Schemes** tab.  
The *Identifier Schemes Summary* screen displays.
3. Click **Delete Identifier Scheme**.  
A pop-up requesting confirmation of your delete request is displayed: "Are you sure you want to delete this Identifier Scheme?"
5. Click **OK** to confirm your delete request.
The Identifier Scheme is permanently removed from the Category Hierarchy.
6. (Optional) Click **Cancel** to cancel the delete operation.

<a href="#top">back to top</a> 